Well ultimately I'm going to want to animate this guy.
So we're going to need to create the underlying skeleton or armature that we'll use to animate him.
But first of all I need to figure out how big this character should be.
So should he be real life size like six feet tall or a metre and a half or more or should he be the
actual size of a tiny little Lego piece.
I don't really know.
That's the problem.
But I think what I'm going to do is just kind of make a compromise and just say he's going to be one
metre tall not quite as big as a normal human being but certainly not as small as one of the toys.
So what I'm going to do is create a reference object.
I am just going to press shift a and I'm going to create a cube mesh cube here.
And if I hit the in key you can see over here in the sidebar that the dimensions of this cube is two
meters by two meters.
What I think I'll do is maybe change the z axis to one meter and then change the x and the Y to maybe
point two try that.
So maybe this is how big my characters should be.
If I hit the three key and go to the side view maybe I can bring this up and kind of put it right on
the grid and just generally speaking this is how big my character should be.
So as we can see he's a little too big.
So I'll go to wireframe and I'll just hit the B key and border select.
This whole thing here I'll go ahead and change to global transformation as well.
And now I'd like to scale it down at this point here at the grid and our origin point is is up here
we should probably move that Origin down to the center of the grid as well.
So let's go ahead and come over here to object set Origin and Origin to 3d cursor and that'll move that
down to there.
Now we can just hit s and scale it down.
So let me go to the front view and I'll hit s and scale it down so.
So maybe he's about this big.
Let's see how this works will hit the period.
Key So yeah let's.
Let's see how this works.
I'll hit the Z key and go back to look Dev.
Here
and that probably is pretty good.
I think that's what we'll go with.
So with the character selected here you can see he's about one point O five meters tall and that's fine
that 0 5 there is is tall hair.
Oh I think that'll be fine.
I'll select that cube and hit the delete key and I'll hit in too close that panel.
Now oh actually let me open that panel up again and let's select the character and we need to deal with
our scale our rotation and location are all zeros and that's good.
But the scale here we should take back to 1 so I'll press control a and if you want you can just apply
all transforms here at this point in time that's fine.
So there we go.
We're all back to zeros and ones.
OK now to actually create the armature for the character let's go to the front view and let's press
shift a again and come down here and choose armature.
And when we do that it creates a single bone.
And from this one bone we're going to create the entire armature.
Now as it is currently if we hit the inky we can see we've got zeros and ones in the rotation and scale
and that's good.
We want to keep it that way to change the size and move it.
We should tab into edit mode so I'll hit tab to go into edit mode.
I'll hit Z to go to wireframe and I just want to select this tip of the bone right here and I'll grab
my move tool and I just want to move it straight down in the z axis till it's quite a bit smaller about
like that and then I'm going to select the entire bone by clicking here and bringing it back up in the
z axis.
So it's about like this and I want the tip of this bone to be just at the top of the hips something
like this like that.
All right let's go back to our solid view and we can't see it inside the character the way it is now.
So let's come over here to our object data panel viewport display and let's click on in front right
there.
So now we can see it inside the character even when we go to object mode we can still see it there and
notice that since I moved this in edit mode the actual origin of the object is still remaining here
in the center of the grid.
And that's good.
All right.
So with this selected maybe I'll go to the side view with the three key and let's select this top tip
of the bone right there and let's hit e to extrude it.
So we'll hit E and then I'll hit Z and drag straight up to about oh midpoint on the torso there and
then I'll hit e and Zee and drag straight up to the base of the neck and then E and Z here's the neck
and Ian Z and here's the bone for the head there we go.
So now we have the hip the torso the neck and the head.
Now we need to rename these.
Let's select this bone and let's come over to the bone panel right here.
And here we can see the name of the bones.
So you've got bone bone one two three et cetera.
So let's just grab this one here and let's call this the root bone and we go.
And then the next one let's just call this spine.
One and this one we're gonna call spine to
this one we can call neck and the one up here we'll call head and we go.
All right.
Well that's a good beginning but there's a problem here I think.
And I think we're going to need to address this pretty quick.
Let's tap back into object mode and I'll select the character and let me go to the front view and if
I tap into edit mode where we can see all the edges I've got a joint here but no edge.
Remember I said how at every joint or every bend you should probably have three edges the edge that
it bends on and then edges on either side of that to maintain the shape.
Well here we don't have anything.
And that's going to be a problem if we ever try and bend the torso at this point.
So let's press control are and I'm going to insert an edge loop right here at that joint and then I'm
going to put edge loops on either side here and here and that will allow us to bend the character at
that point at that joint All right so that's going to help there.
The next thing we ought to do is now that I'm thinking about it we should do that on the legs as well
too.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's.
Let's hit the three key here and let's create some edges here for a bend at the knee.
We're not going to have the character bend the knees a whole lot but I think it'd be helpful just to
have it be able to bend just a bit.
So let's press control ah and click here and remember we can flip between the two edges here so if I
hit the E key we've got this edge.
And if I hit the f key we can flip back and forth between the edge down here and the shape of the edge
up at the top.
So I just want it right here OK.
So let's also do that on the other side.
I'll press control are click and I'll hit e and hit the f key and we go so that flattens it out.
I just wanted about the same place as the other one right there.
Yeah.
OK so now let's create an edge down here and an edge up here.
Once again I'll hit E and then F and then we go.
So we need to do the same thing down here.
I'll hit control are here.
Control R and click E and F and that should go there.
So now what let's do is press control three to go to the left or the graphic view.
And if I press all Z I get this kind of transparent view I'll hit G two times and that will take me
into slide mode and I'll just slide that edge right there and then let's all click this one control
three and let's hit G twice and I'll slide that edge to there.
So it's about the same place as the other side alt Z.
And then we go.
Now let's tab back into object mode and for the next video we're going to begin adding the bones for
the legs and the arms.